Hello everyone, and welcome to the lecture
on the complex built-in function,
which returns complex numbers and can accept either a string
or a pair of numbers as an input.
And I'll show you what I mean by that in just a second.
So, if you're familiar with complex numbers,
they have a real portion to them
and then an imaginary portion to them.
So if you're coming from a math or a physics background
where you need to use complex numbers in your code,
complex is going to be your go-to function
to make that happen.
Okay, so here in the jupyter notebook, I've described
the two ways of inputting into complex, so you can go ahead
and read this first, but basically, if the first parameter
is a string, then you don't call out the second parameter.
And then the other way of calling it
is with a pair of numbers.
So let's just go ahead and jump straight into the live code.
'Cause I think this is the easiest way to see
what's actually going on.
So, let's go ahead and go over the first way to use
the complex function.
Alright, so let's go ahead and get started.
So there's two ways of inputting into the function complex,
the first way is with two parameters, the numbers.
So, you want to put in the real number, the real part
of the number first, and then the imaginary.
So in this case, I've created two plus three J,
where three J is the imaginary part of the complex number.
Just to show you another example, complex,
let's do 10 and one, so your real part is 10, plus one J.
What's really interesting about the complex function though
is it can actually read strings as well.
So I could've gone complex and pass a string that says
something like 10 plus two J,
and it will understand it as well.
Now, like I mentioned before,
if you're passing in the string,
you don't pass any second parameter,
since you're already including the imaginary part
in that string.
And that's really all there is to it, so,
keeping this in mind if you're ever dealing with
complex numbers in Python, just know that Python's already
thought of this for you, and there's a whole
complex function to give you additional functionality
as you deal with complex numbers in your code.
Okay, super-short lecture, but hopefully it should have been
really straightforward, remember, there's two ways,
the first part's the real number,
second parameter is the imaginary part,
or you just pass a string through the complex function.
Okay, that's all there is to it,
and I'll see you at the next lecture.